------------------------------------------
ABSTRACT 

We present a new transiting hot Jupiter, TOI 1937Ab, with a peculiar
set of properties.

The host star, TOI 1937A (G=13.0), is roughly solar mass. However its
spin period is shorter than 99% of other stars that host hot Jupiters
(6.5 days).

The planet's size and mass are typical for hot Jupiters
(Rp=1.25+/-0.10Rj, Mp=1.XX+/-0.XXMj).  However its orbital period is
shorter than 99% of other hot Jupiters.

We found the planet because it had been reported as a candidate member
of the diffuse, gravitationally unbound ``halo'' of the open cluster
NGC 2516 (~100 Myr).

We present the evidence for and against the host star being truly this
young.

First, from isochrones and gyrochronology we show that the halo of
NGC2516 is to within measurement precision coeval with the core.
Available lithium measurements support this interpretation. They also
confirm that at fixed stellar mass, lithium abundance is strongly
correlated with stellar rotation period (as has been observed in the
Pleaides).

Stellar positions and velocities from Gaia EDR3, crossmatched with
TESS rotation periods, suggest a membership probability for TOI 1937
of at least 50% (given the fraction of gyrochronologically confirmed
young stars in similar regions of phase space as TOI 1937). [at least
b/c some young stars might show rotation, but the LCs could be bad]

The rotation of the star is consistent with it being roughly the age
of the cluster, but might have been tidally influenced by the hot
Jupiter.

Lithium does not support the star's youth, and is the strongest
argument against it being a cluster member. There are a few caveats
with the lithium: it is probably affected by the star's rotation
period, and it may be affected by the presence of the hot Jupiter.
Nonetheless, its absence is worrisome.

The metallicity is X, which supports / is in tension with the cluster
membership.

The companion, TOI 1937B, with an apparent separation of ~1000AU,
appears to be an MX dwarf.  Despite our best attempts, we cannot yet
photometrically verify whether the companion is still on its
pre-main-sequence contraction track.  This could perhaps be resolved
with NIR AO imaging.

------------------------------------------
TAKEAWAYS

* Open cluster halos are a good planet hunting ground. They solve the
  twin problems of a) number of young stars to search, and b)
  crowding.

* The contamination fraction of field stars in these environments is
  best assessed empircally, through a combination of isochronal,
gyrochronal, and spectroscopic age indicators.

* Despite the hundreds of known hot Jupiters, the youngest confirmed
  hot Jupiter is quite old: KELT-9b (300 Myr).

* The presence of a hot Jupiter likely alters multiple age indicators.
  If the hot Jupiter arrives on its close-in orbit during the disk
  phase, it could break the magnetic lock between the star's
  magnetosphere and the inner disk rim, and thereby affect the stellar
  spin evolution.  Tidal interactions between the star and planet after
  arrival could also lead to stellar spin-up (or spin-down, depending on
  the planet's orbital and star's spin frequencies).  If the stellar
  rotation period changes sufficiently, the lithium abundance in the
  photosphere is expected on empirical grounds to change. This could be
  explained by enhanced mixing processes.

* TOI 1937 is a system that brings all of these considerations
  together.  It is potentially a 100 Myr hot Jupiter, which would make
  it the youngest confirmed hot Jupiter by a factor of 3.  (Plenty of
  younger candidates have been published[1,2], and have either been
  retracted [3,4], or have not been confirmed).  Given the available
  evidence, it seems likely/unlikely that TOI1937 is truly a cluster
  member.

* Some aspects of the system's interpretation require more data.

  * Characterization of the secondary could be improved.  NIR AO
    imaging could give a more precise bolometric luminosity, which
    could clarify its status as a pre-MS M dwarf, and therefore the
    system's youth.  NIR high-resolution spectra on big telescopes
    might(?) give a more precise Teff for the companion, might lead to a
    lithium detection, and might also yield H-alpha measurements
    consistent or in contradiction with the youth.

  * More PFS RVs could pin down the planet mass better, and also the
    eccentricity.

  * Li measurements for "slow rotators" that are kinematically cluster
    members would continue to clarify the Li-Prot-Mstar relationship.

  * The a priori chances of a field star having both 6d-kinematic
    (1e-3) overlap and rotational (1 in 20) overlap with the halo of
    NGC2516 are of order 5e-5, or say 1e-4.  If one is willing to accept
    strange stellar spin and planet orbital periods as youth indicators,
    you get another 1e-2 * 1e-2, and an a priori probability of this
    object being a field star of order 1e-8.  Selection effects imply that
    we should be suspicious of this argument, particularly in light of the
    lack of lithium in the host star.  The metallicity, being
    CONSISTENT/INCONSISTENT with the cluster membership, is in our eyes
    the straw that breaks the camel's back.
