The authors posit that the open cluster NGC 2516 is far greater in extent than has been
considered before, in particular also including a vastly larger halo than is currently
considered, and use rotation period measurements from TESS data and archived Lithium
spectroscopy to confirm that that is so.
This referee finds that although the paper is generally well-written and well-argued,
there are some major issues that need to be addressed before possible publication.
At this stage the referee is more inclined to believe that the authors have identified a
set of young stars in that region of the sky than actual halo member stars of NGC 2516.

The authors begin by concatenating a very large collection of stars identified by
CG18 (which they term the core members), and those of KC19 and M21, the last two
having very relaxed criteria for association with NGC 2516.
At this stage, as one can see from the distributions in Fig.1, the sample is
completely bloated with field stars which now clearly have to be excised.
The question is how?

The authors justifiably look first to the HR diagram and understandably find
that that is not very helpful in rejecting non-members because almost all stars in
the extended sample lie close to the ridge line of the canonical cluster members.
(Nevertheless, this is already a basis for rejecting stars below the main sequence
and those significantly above it, including giants. The authors should consider
this.) Incidentally, the Gaia photometry for the brightest stars is likely not good
enough for fitting any isochrones of this age, so in this referee's estimation, the
cluster turnoff is perhaps still the best one can do, keeping in mind the persistence
of photometric problems for bright stars.

The authors then go on to consider the rotation periods and lithium abundances
of the extended sample, to compare them with previously-known distribution of
similarly young stars.
The conceptual problem here is that stars that deviate from the known/expected
rotational distribution for NGC 2516 are again not excised from the sample.
As prior studies (e.g. Fritzewski+2020) have shown, there are no rotators above
the slow sequence in NGC 2516. So such stars most certainly have to be excised
from further consideration. (Some of these are even older than Praesepe, as the
authors themselves show in Fig.4.) The authors should consider whether other
regions of the color-period diagram merit similar treatment.

An additional concern is that the authors construct two samples A (where rotation
periods from multiple types of measurements don't agree) and B (where rotation
periods agree), but then go further with sample A (for instance Fig.6).
Had the authors gone forward with the tightest-possible sample, and had then
shown that this tight rotation-lithium sample still has a far greater extent on
sky and in the canonical parallax, proper motion, RV etc. spaces, then readers would
be far more willing to believe the authors' claims about a more extensive cluster.

The referee notes that the prior work of Healy & McCullough 2020, who also used
TESS data to measure a sizeable group of stars in NGC 2516 has been completely
ignored. The authors should include a discussion of the H+M2020 work in relation
to the results in this paper.

While on the subject, it should also be mentioned that the Introduction of the
paper is only from the galactic structure perspective, and is lacking in
introducing readers to the rotation-lithium perspective. Given that the latter
constitute the bulk of the paper, doing that would clearly help the argument
being laid out.

This referee came away with the general impression that the authors have likely
identified a number of young stars in a vast halo around NGC 2516, but did not
find the association with NGC 2516 itself to be particularly convincing.
Perhaps they can think about how to make their arguments tighter, and the
inclusion criterea stricter in the next iteration, to be able to better convince
the community of the association with NGC 2516.

Data Editor's review:
One of our data editors has reviewed your manuscript and has the following suggestion(s) to help improve the data, software citation and/or overall content. Please treat this as you would a reviewer's comments and respond accordingly in your report to the science editor. Questions can be sent directly to the data editors at data-editors@aas.org.

The .csv file attached with Table 1 has a large number of significant digits in most columns. In the revised manuscript, the authors should include a new version that has only the required precision. This document outlines the typical uncertainties for Gaia data:

https://gea.esac.esa.int/archive/documentation/GDR2/

Fewer significant digits will result in a smaller file that will be easier to read, manipulate, and transfer.
